---
layout: post
title: DB2 SQL7008N SQLSTATE=55019 when doing insert/update on a DB2 for iSeries table
---


http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21676715

Technote (troubleshooting)

Problem(Abstract)
You may get error an like below when doing an insert or update operation on a DB2 for iSeries table

SQL7008N  REXX variable "<tableName>" contains inconsistent data. SQLSTATE=55019

Cause
The DB2 for iSeries table does not have journaling enabled.

Resolving the problem
To resolve this issue, do one of the following:
Enable journaling for the DB2 for iSeries table. You may contact your DB2 for iSeries DBA.
If you are getting this error from your application, specify application specific Isolation level property with value NO COMMIT.
For CLI/ODBC applications:
Update TXNIsolation CLI keyword with value 32 in your db2cli.cfg.
'db2 update cli cfg for section <dsn> using TXNIsolation 32'. 
Restart the application.
For .NET applications:
Update IsolationLevel to 'chaos' in your connection string. Or if you are using db2dsdriver.cfg, you can specify it in db2dsdriver.cfg.
For JDBC applications:
DB2 JDBC Driver does not support Isolation level NONE or NO COMMIT. You may need to use option (1) or (3) in this case.
Alter your SQL statement to include 'WITH NONE' or 'WITH NC' at the end for example:
insert into <tableName> values ('a', 'b') with NC
insert into <tableName> values ('a', 'b') with NONE 


http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21007161

Question
Received an SQL7008 error when attempting to INSERT data into an AS/400 table. "REXX variable '<variable>' contains inconsistent data". This problem is resolved by enabling Journaling for the database on the AS/400.

Cause
Journaling was not enabled on the AS/400. OS/400 V4R4M0 added support for a new autocommit mode so files used by applications will need to be journaled.
If you have existing libraries/databases that were created through standard OS/400 commands (like CRTLIB or CRTPF), journalling is not enabled by default.


Answer
This problem is resolved by enabling Journaling for the database on the AS/400.

Example:


1. Create a journal receiver in a library of your choice using the Create Journal Receiver (CRTJRNRCV) command:

CRTJRNRCV JRNRCV(lib/jrnrcvname) 
THRESHOLD(100000) 
TEXT('Description text')

2. Create a journal for your file by using the Create Journal (CRTJRN) command:

CRTJRN JRN(lib/jrnname) 
JRNRCV(lib/jrnrcvname)
MNGRCV(*SYSTEM) DLTRCV(*YES) 
TEXT('Description text')

3. Start journaling your physical file by using the Start Journal Physical File (STRJRNPF) command:

STRJRNPF FILE(lib/filename) 
JRN(lib/jrnname)
OMTJRNE(*OPNCLO)

For more details about setting up journals for source tables, refer to http://publib.boulder.ibm.com/infocenter/db2luw/v9r5/topic/com.ibm.swg.im.iis.db.repl.iseries.doc/topics/iiyrsisesetupjrnalssrc.html
